why does the vegan restaurant exist does
the vegan restaurant exist as a place
for vegans or does it exist as a place
to reach out to and make comfortable non
vegans to cater to non vegans and do you
sacrifice the principles of veganism
through outreach itself about us yen
[Music]
think the fundamental problem here I
want to address is this problem of
thinking of veganism in terms of
outreach as opposed to thinking of
veganism in terms of principle and the
assumed tension between the two that if
we take a stand on a matter of principle
then we're not reaching out to non
vegans we're not making this kind of
effort there was a memorable video from
a guy called vegan nut vegan not as a
friend of vegan gains to my knowledge
they're both based in Toronto vegan nut
in a restaurant yelling at people
because they were wearing fur coats
inside the vegan restaurant no I didn't
make my point because you're still here
it's disgusting
[Music]
do you think those animals were harassed
when they were skinned alive for a
fashion statement
okay now the owner of the restaurant
didn't like that the owner or the
manager could be the managers but the
boss present in the restaurant the boss
said no this restaurants opened
everybody we want meat eaters here why
does the vegan restaurant exist does the
vegan restaurant exist as a place for
vegans or does it exist as a place to
reach out to and make comfortable non
vegans to cater to non vegans and do you
sacrifice the principles of veganism
through outreach itself to me this is
parallel this is parallel this question
of you know idiots like a natural vegan
saying well we shouldn't really
inhibition it would be extreme to
actually preach veganism we should we
should just you know preach meatless
Mondays in this horseshit
you know you know basically conflating
veganism and flexitarian ISM or whatever
gonna say I don't know if what if you
had a vegan restaurant that actually
refused to admit people because they
were wearing fur what if you have a
vegan restaurant that refuses to admit
people because they're wearing wool what
if you have a vegan restaurant that
refuses to admit people because they're
wearing leather shoes that's most of the
population in Toronto in New York in
most Western countries the majority be
wearing leather shoes leather boots what
if there's a middle path what if people
enter the restaurant wearing leather
shoes and at the door you have a coat
check and say I'm sorry
could you change into these slippers you
know like a Japanese restaurant or
Japanese different types of Japanese
attitude Japanese style you have some
plastic sandals some plastic slippers
and gettin's I'm sorry could you take
off your leather shoes here at the door
and where these plastic slippers and
said this is a vegan restaurant I'm
sorry I realize you have a fur coat can
you leave your fur coat in the coat
check there is a middle way there is but
a lot of people would say no and we'll
walk out of the restaurant right they'd
say forget it I'm not taking off my
shoes to sit here and eat with you it's
sure a lot of people will turn around
all you would lose a lot of business
walk at the door you know I think
there's an interesting parallel I would
not do what vegan not had done in that
video in that video vegan not just
verbally whatever excoriates these
people for daring to wear a fur coat in
a vegan restaurant I wouldn't have done
that I think it's only the role of the
manager or the waiter or the owner of
the boss I think that's the rule the
restaurant owner to make that it's a I
think it's not my role as a patron I
think I can go I could go and ask the
waiter I could ask the manager but I
would not myself kick out a customer
because it's not my business not my
decision and you know to give a more
extreme example in parallel what would
you do if somebody walks into a Jewish
synagogue into a Jewish temple wearing a
Nazi swastika wearing a Nazi symbol the
most obvious the easiest answer is to
say they should not be allowed to enter
the Jewish temple because you're
assuming the purpose of the temple is
for that exclusive community right but
the truth is one of the most important
and one of the most powerful things you
can do in running a Jewish temple is
outreach is to reach out to anti-semitic
people to reach out to neo-nazis and
literally invite them into the temple
and try to get them to see you as a
human being right now obviously the
level of hostility is on another level
there but in a sense the most beautiful
thing you could possibly do for the
Prague
of human civilization would be to
actively have outreach to actively
invite in anti-semitic people who might
be indeed wearing a swastika and sit
down and have that conversation it's a
difficult question I think you know the
reality is vegans need both vegans do
need a place where they can sit down and
say this place is for us this is by us
for us this is our temple and a lot of
vegans are so morose and sick at heart
and maybe so confrontational because
they lack that in their lives they don't
have a synagogue they go they don't have
a temple to go to they may not have a
family they can go to if in your own
house in your own home your parents are
eating meat it may be your own wife is
eating meat or your own husband is
eating meat a lot of mixed couples like
that you feel hounded and disrespected
and denigrated everywhere and then when
you go to that vegan restaurant you sit
down and you feel this is the one place
I should not have to look at your fur
coat or your leather shoes this is the
one place that's supposed to be special
for me it's supposed to be for me right
but on the other hand there's the
question of outreach and as I say
there's the question of remaining
steadfast in our principles of not
compromising what veganism is in
reaching out to meat eaters and inviting
them in ultimately so they can sit down
and have that conversation and CSS human
beings ah
Lucien